# Optimization-of-Face-Mask-Allocation-during-COVID-19
How can we use optimization to address the shortages of face masks for  frontline medical staff in Alameda County?

Presenting models for optimizing the acquisition of a variety of face masks intended to be used by care providers to care for victims of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Our models will consider 33 hospitals the San Francisco Bay Area, and both surgical and N95  face masks.  

We have set our focus on acquiring the correct number of masks given some variety of  conditions.  
One of the conditions we forecast is demand. The San Francisco Bay Area was the first  to enact shelter-in-place (SIP) restrictions and depending on the rate of adherence to the SIP  order we can expect demand to be variable. If 100% of people stay home and have no contact,  then we can expect lower demand than if 75% of people breached the SIP order to congregate  and further spread the virus. In our LP and Simulation models we use three levels of demand  with varying probability. 
We have had to make some assumptions about the number and cost of masks. Clearly  the situation is so dire that calculating the pre-pandemic number of masks is not viable. There  are not enough masks to use the standard protocol of “one set of PPE per patient visit”. We have  used the standard of one mask per day per nurse. We have also assigned an average market price  of $20 per mask under the same presumption as demand…that we are at the start of the  pandemic and as such the demand is unknown and the price for PPE isn’t yet put under control  by the government.  
We intend to show Simulation models to determine demand, LP models for optimal  supply chain choices, and Decision Analysis to consider the effects of supplier mask quality and defects if we were limited to choosing one supplier. We hope you find our content informative. 
